staging/README.md, before:

# Installation Guide for Croquet Microverse (April 5th, 2022)

## 1. Clone this repo

Clone this git repository in your convenient manner.

## 2. Make `apiKey.js`
Create a file called `apiKey.js` by copying `apiKey.js-example` to `apiKey.js` and then edit the two properties called `apiKey` and `appId` in the file.

## 3. Run `npm install`
Run `npm install` in the directory.

## 4. Run `npm start`
Run `npm start` in the directory. This will run two servers. One is the file server on localhost:9684, and another is the watch-server to inject code changes into a running session. You can also run them separately by running `npm run file-server` and `npm run watch-server`.

## 5. Note on the watch-server
The watch-server by default starts watching the directory called `behaviors`.  If you want to create a separate set of behavior files in a different directory, you supply an argument to the watch-server by `npm run watch-server -- aDirectory`.

## 6. Press the Connect button in the world menu
After launching Microverse by visiting http://localhost:9684 in Chrome bring up the world menu from bottom left, and press "Connect". This will establish the connection to the watch-server started in step 4.

## 7. Edit or add a new file
You can simply add a new file in the watched directory (by default `behaviors/default/`), and if the file follows the structure of other files, it will become automatically available.

Commit message:

move world files to the worlds directory

staging/README.md, after:

# Installation Guide for Croquet Microverse (April 14th, 2022)

## 1. Clone this repo

Clone this git repository in your convenient manner.

## 2. Make `apiKey.js`
Create a file called `apiKey.js` by copying `apiKey.js-example` to `apiKey.js` and then edit the two properties called `apiKey` and `appId` in the file.

## 3. Run `npm install`
Run `npm install` in the directory.

## 4. Run `npm start`
Run `npm start` in the directory. This will run two servers. One is the file server on localhost:9684, and another is the watch-server to inject code changes into a running session. You can also run them separately by running `npm run file-server` and `npm run watch-server`.

## 5. Note on the watch-server
The watch-server by default starts watching the directory called `behaviors`.  If you want to create a separate set of behavior files in a different directory, you supply an argument to the watch-server by `npm run watch-server -- aDirectory`.

## 6. Press the Connect button in the world menu
After launching Microverse by visiting http://localhost:9684 in Chrome bring up the world menu from bottom left, and press "Connect". This will establish the connection to the watch-server started in step 4.

## 7. Edit or add a new file
You can simply add a new file in the watched directory (by default `behaviors/default/`), and if the file follows the structure of other files, it will become automatically available.

## 8. Make a new world file
You can add a new file in the "worlds" directory (copying default.js or test.js is an easy way).  If you start microverse with ?world=fileBaseName, the file at `worlds/fileBaseName.js` is used to start the world.

## 9. Note on the persistence
The system stores the "persistent data" once about 60 seconds if there was some activity. When you edit your behavior code, or update the system, Croquets start a fresh session but re-loads contents from the persistent data. One thing to note is that the content in the world file that the world is originally created from is not used to initialize this new session. Consider the world file as the starting point of a world, but editing it does not affect the world since it is created.
